# How Fair is FAIR? Understanding LOD Cloud FAIRness Through Correlation Patterns
This repository contains data and code to reproduce the results for the article "How Fair is FAIR? Understanding LOD Cloud FAIRness Through Correlation Patterns", submitted to [CIKM 2025](https://cikm2025.org/).

1. [Explore the full data about FAIRness and correlation patterns](#explore-the-complete-data-about-the-tables-presented-in-the-article)
2. [Reproduce the results](#reproduce-the-results)

## Explore the complete data about the tables presented in the article
All the data presented in the article can be found in the [data/](./data/) folder.

### Fairness Evaluation Results

The [fairness_evaluation_results](./data/fairness_evaluation_results/) folder contains CSV files with the fairness data for each subcloud. Each subfolder corresponds to a subcloud, and within it are five CSV files, each representing the FAIRness evaluation for one of the five observations.

### Correlation results
The [correlation_results](./data/correlation_results/) folder contains the correlation data between the metrics of the FAIR principles. Each subfolder corresponds to the correlations for a specific subcloud, and within each subfolder, you will find correlation results for the five observations in both CSV format and as heatmaps in PNG format.

Files ending with *_dimensions refer to the correlations computed only for the quality dimensions that are mapped to the FAIR principles, following the table presented in the paper. Files labeled with sparql_up indicate that only datasets with active SPARQL endpoints were considered for those correlations.

### Quality data 
The [quality_data](./data/quality_data/) folder contains the raw quality data computed by KGHeartBeat, organized by subcloud. Each subfolder includes five CSV files, each corresponding to the quality observed on a specific date. 
The data in these folders will be generated upon executing the results regeneration procedure described in Section [Reproduce the results](#reproduce-the-results).

## Reproduce the results
### Requirements

- Python 3.13 or later.
- pip installed on your system.
- KGHeartBeat quality data (you can download the quality data for the five time snapshots from the following link:)
- zip on linux to extract compressed files (on Windows, any software capable of decompressing a .zip file is suitable).

### Download KGHeartBeat quality data
You can download the quality data of the five time snapshots from the following link: [https://drive.google.com/file/d/10oY0Vk-fdhzjlDoHE9_BHx-6M3mUrrS3/view?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/file/d/10oY0Vk-fdhzjlDoHE9_BHx-6M3mUrrS3/view?usp=sharing). 
Then put the .zip file in the [./data/quality_data/kghb_output](./data/quality_data/kghb_output/) directory.

### Linux and MacOS users
A [shell script](./reproduce_results.sh) has been created to simplify and expedite the process of reproducing the results. Make sure to grant execution permission to the script.
Make sure to grant execution permission to the script.
```sh
chmod +x reproduce_results.sh
```
Then, execute it
```sh
./reproduce_results.sh
```

This script automates the setup and execution of the FAIRness evaluation workflow. It performs the following steps:
1.	**Environment Setup**: Creates and activates a Python virtual environment.
2.	**Dependency Installation**: Installs the required Python packages via pip.
3.	**Data Extraction**: Decompresses the quality data files generated by KGHeartBeat, which are compressed to reduce storage footprint and comply with GitHub size constraints.
4.	**FAIRness Evaluation**: Executes [main.py](./src/main.py) to compute the FAIRness based on the extracted quality data. The results are saved in the [./data/fairness_evaluation_results](./data/fairness_evaluation_results/) directory.
5.	**Correlation Analysis**: Computes correlation matrices on the FAIRness results. The outputs are saved as CSV files and visualized as heatmaps (PNG format) in the [./data/correlation_results](./data/correlation_results/) directory.

### Windows users

1. Create and activate a Python Virtual Environment (Optional but Recommended)
```sh
# Create a Python venv
python -m venv venv
# Activate it
.\venv\Scripts\activate
```

2. Install the requirements
```sh
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Unzip the KGHeartBeat quality data with any software capable of decompressing a .zip file is suitable. The file to be decompressed are located in the folder [data/quality_analysis_results](./data/quality_analysis_results) (put the extracted CSV files in the same directory of the zip file)

4. Run the main.py file

```sh
python main.py
```

The main will execute the FAIRness evaluation based on the extracted quality data. The results are saved in the [./data/fairness_evaluation_results](./data/fairness_evaluation_results/) directory.
Then the correlation analysis is performed on the FAIRness results. The outputs are saved as CSV files and visualized as heatmaps (PNG format) in the [./data/correlation_results](./data/correlation_results/) directory.
